Title: 33c3  
Slug: 33c3  
Date: 2016-12-28 01:21:07  
Authors: m157q  
Category: Conf  
Tags: 33C3, Chaos Communication Congress, CCC  
Summary: Note for 33C3.  
  
  
## 33C3 Day 1 (2016.12.27 Tue)  
  
### How do I crack satellite and Cable Pay TV  
  
### Lock picking workshop  
  
### Regaining trust of CPU  
  
### 逛攤位  
  
### Woolim - Lifting the Fog on DPRK's Latest Tablet PC  
  
#### Woolim  
  
+ Name of waterfall in DPRK  
+ One of probably 4 Tablet PCs from DPRKs  
+ Manufacturer  
    + Hoozo in China  
    + Z100  
+ SImilar products sell for ~180 EUR to ~260 EUR  
+ Software from/modified by DPRK  
+ 南韓朋友幫忙拿到 Woolim 在北韓的廣告影片，現場播放。  
    + 背景音樂也太熱血 XDDD  
    + 廣告超級久啊，大概快五分鐘了吧。  
    + > Don't drive and watch TV (XDDD  
    + Free Warrantee service  
    + Remember RedStar AV (Anti-virus)  
  
##### Hardware  
  
+ System Information  
    + Allwinner A33 [ARMv7] SoC  
    + 8GB SK Hynix flash  
    + MicroSD and power plug  
    + Not so responsive touchscreen  
    + no communication interfaces  
+ USB peripherals available  
    + Modem  
    + WiFi  
    + LAN  
    + DVB-T  
    + HDMI [?]  
  
##### Software  
  
+ Android 4.4.2  
+ Kernel 3.4.39  
+ Build: Sep 10, 2015  
+ Preinstalled applications  
    + Camera  
    + "Education"  
    + Games  
    + Browser  
+ Built-in apps  
    + 谷歌拼音輸入法  
    + Flash  
    + ...  
    + Microsoft Office  
    + ODF  
    + 有個類似 SimCity 的 App，可以畫房屋的建築圖。  
    + Cooking Application  
    + TraceViewer  
        + Took pictures whenever you open the app and send to server.  
    + Internal Storage  
        + 無法開啟外來的檔案，會顯示：It is not signed file.  
  
##### Application Demos  
  
+ NAC  
    + Probably used for a access to Kwangmyong  
    + PANA / PPPoE / Dialup  
    + Login credentials  
    + Different access points for different groups  
+ Red Flag  
    + Schedules thread  
    + Takes screenshots in the background  
    + Logs the Browser history  
    + Get IMEI, IMSI and `android_id`  
    + Copies key material  
    + "Integrity Check" for files  
  
##### Gaining Access  
  
+ They really lock the tablet excellently.  
+ The obvious things  
    + ADB enabled? => NO  
    + Can we enable it? => NO  
    + Developer options? => NO  
    + Can we install APKs? => NO  
    + Is there a recovery/reset mode? => NO  
+ The more advanced things  
    + File open dialogs in Apps  
    + Attacks via archives  
        + Symlinks  
        + Directory Traversal  
    + Suspicious shell commands in configuration files  
    + Java Deserialization for Tetris  
        + Wrote by a Chinese guy  
        + Got the source code  
        + Serialize Java object into SD card  
    + Flash application  
    + XLS macro injections  
    + even more...  
    + None of these works  
+ Exploits? Vulnerabilities?  
+ Avoid Hardware Tampering  
+ Might find a way  
    + PhoenixCard  
        + Create Bootable Images for Allwinner Devices  
        + Put this SD card in and it actually worked.  
+ After the bootable SD card worked.  
    + Linux kernel, but no way to access memory.  
+ What to do next?  
    + Test Environment  
        + Cheap (about 30 bucks) A33 Tablet with similar functionality  
        + It worked and dumped out the storage layout.  
  
##### Distribution of Media files in DPRK: Achieving absolute control  
  
+ Multiple Ways of Tracing Media Distribution  
    + Watermarking introduced in Red Star OS  
        + Append simple watermarkds to media files  
    + Compatible code available on Woolim  
+ Red Star OS Watermarking Recap  
    + Plaintext: WMB48Z789B3AZ97  
    + `takeshixx/redstar-tools`  
+ Tracking the Distribution of Media Files  
    + Create social networks  
    + Construct connections between dissidents  
    + Track down sources  
    + Shutdown  
+ Woolim is More Restrictive than Red Star OS  
    + Introduces file signatures  
        + Using asymmetric cryptography [RSA]  
        + Goal: PREVENT the distribution of media files  
    + Government has full control over signatures  
        + Absolute control over media sources  
+ SIgnature Checking  
    + Java interface with native JNI library [gov.no.media.Sign]  
        + Called by apps e.g. during file opening/saving  
        + Sometimes concealed as "License checks"  
    + Multiple ways of signing  
        + NATSIGN  
        + SELFSIGN  
    + Files without proper signatures are forbidden.  
+ Java Native Interface Libraries  
    + Check if file has a proper signature  
    + Used by various applications, e.g.:  
        + FileBrowser.apk  
        + Gallery2.apk  
        + Music.apk  
        + ...  
+ NATSIGN  
    + Files that have been approved by the government  
        + Also referred to as "gov_sign"  
    + Files are signed with a 2048 bit RSA key  
+ SELFSIGN  
    + Combination of  
        + Symmetric encryption [Rijndael 256]  
        + Asymmetric signatures [RSA]  
        + Hashing [SHA224/SHA256]  
    + Device identity stored in `/data/local/tmp/legalref.dat`  
        + Comprised of IMEI and IMSI  
        + Each device's... legal reference  
    + Files created on the device itself can be opened  
        + Camera images, office documents, PDFs, etc.  
    + Signatures  
        + RSA signature of file hash  
        + Encrypted device identity  
            + Rijndael 256 (key and blocks)  
            + IMEI and IMSI  
        + Trailer  
            + Signature size  
            + ASCII suffix "SELFSIGN"  
        + FIxed size of 792 bytes  
+ File types affected by signing  
    + All kinds of media files  
    + Text and HTML files  
    + Even APKs...  
  
###### Absolute Control of Woolim's Media Sources  
  
+ NATSIGN  
    + Approved by the government  
+ SELFSIGN  
    + Created on the device itself  
+ Can not be shared to  
    + Other Woolim tablet PCs  
    + Other devices in DPRK  
    + Rest of World  
  
##### Supporters  
  
ISFINK  
  
##### Future Work  
  
+ Free some of the stuff from the tablet  
    + Dictionaries  
    + Books  
  
##### Q&A  
  
+ OS occupied about 1GB on Woolim  
+ Won't provice the dump of this device because it may put the owner of this device in danger.  
  
---  
  
## 33C3 Day 2 (2016.12.28 Wed)  
  
---  
  
## 33C3 Day 3 (2016.12.29 Thu)  
  
---  
  
## 33C3 Day 4 (2016.12.30 Fri)  
